Welcome back. I hope that
rigorous content on regression
and related techniques
makes sense to you.
I hope it's pretty
clear now how we can
take a bunch of data from,
let's say, period 1,
whether it's, again,
past behavior,
marketing activities,
competition, whatever,
to predict something
about period 2.
Whether it's the
number of purchases,
whether someone stays
with us or not.
It's really really important
to be able to do that.
Unfortunately, those
techniques are
common, they're very accessible.
You don't necessarily have
to have special software.
You can do it in something as
simple as Microsoft Excel.
In fact, I want to talk about
an example where
people were doing that
thing long before they had
any kind of computational
power that we have today,
or even the rich data
that we have today.
I want to take you back to
the late 1960s, the early 1970s.
It was the dawn of what today
we would know as
direct marketing.
It really was when a lot of
these ideas of customer
analytics were born.
It was the first time that
we really had any kind
of granularity about what
particular customers were
doing and a desire to
know what each and every one of
those customers
would be doing next,
for how long, and
for how much money.
So it became very important for
companies to come up
with what we like
to call KPIs, key
performance indicators.
Can we look at
some indicators of what people
had been doing in the past
in order to make some
accurate statements
about what they're likely
to do in the future.
This is just a natural area
to run something like
a regression model,
and indeed, regression models
were used for this
kind of purpose.
But it wasn't, let's
just throw in tons and
tons and tons of data
because part of it as
the data was limited,
part of it, as I said, is that
our computational
power was limited.
So we have to think
very carefully.
It was very very important
for us to come up with
just a few measures
that would be fairly
predictive of what customers
would be worth in the future.
So our forefathers
in direct marketing,
they basically did the kinds
of things we've been
talking about here.
Let's take our dataset,
let's chop it into two pieces,
let's collect some
data from period
1 to see which elements of
that period 1 data would be
most predictive of what
people did in period 2.
In period 2 would be looking at,
how many purchases
they made or what was
the dollar value of
those customers?
They ran lots of
models to try to find
out which bits of data
were most predictive,
and they'd do it over and
over and over again on lots
of different datasets,
for lots of different products,
lots of different geographies,
lots of different
customer segments.
Because we wanted
to find a few of
those explanatory variables
that were pretty robust,
that time and time again
would prove to be predictive.
This is where our forefathers in
direct marketing came up
with the idea of R-F-M,
recency, frequency,
monetary value.
What they found time and time
again back in the
'60s, early '70s,
and we still see true today
here in the 21st century,
is that you can give me
these three summary metrics.
You give me recency,
frequency, monetary value.
You tell me the last
time that someone
made a purchase with
me or did some other kind
of economically
valuable activity,
maybe they took a sales call.
Maybe they visited the website.
So they did something that
suggests that they're going to
become a more valuable customer.
Generally, we're talking
about a purchase.
So that's R, that's recency.
Now tell me about frequency.
Tell me how many
purchases they made or
how many economically
beneficial activities
they did over a set
period of time,
let's say the last year or two,
and third would be
monetary value.
I think that's pretty
much self-explanatory.
So when they did
those economically
beneficial activities,
what was the overall or
the average monetary value of
each and every one of them?
So if you can give me R-F-M,
recency, frequency,
monetary value,
I can make a very accurate
statement about what
that customer's going to
be worth in period 2.
Again, this was one of
the first areas where
regression analysis
was used in marketing.
It was one of the first ways for
folks in marketing to
say, "You know what,
all of that data that
we've been collecting,
not really sure
what to do with it,
there's real value there.
We can really predict stuff
and then we can start to
change our business to take
advantage of these insights about
what's likely to
happen in the future,
not just what happened
in the past."
So I just want to
put RFM out there as
just one very nice example
of an application of
the kinds of things that
[inaudible] was talking about.
Now I want to go
one step further.
So we can run these
regression models
and we can take
whatever data we have.
Again, we could start with
something as simple as RFM.
We can bring in many
many more kinds
of measures, much
more complicated,
much more interesting,
and make statements
about what's likely to
happen in period 2.
Again, if all you're
interested in
is making statements
about period two,
how many purchases are going
to happen in the next year?
Who's going to churn or not?
Then regression type
models are fine.
In fact, you can't do better
than regression type models,
or different kinds of data
mining that might be out there.
But what happens when you
want to go beyond period two?
What happens when you want
to make statements about
period three, or period four?
Or what happens if you want
to talk about something
like customer lifetime value?
But we don't want to limit
our statements just to what
a particular customer is going
to do over the next year.
But if we want to go out
there and acquire customers,
if we want to figure out
what's the maximum amount
that we should be willing
to spend on a customer,
We can't limit ourselves just to
how much they're going to pay us,
how much profits we'll get
from them in the next period,
we need to project that
out way into the future.
The problem is, regression
type models are
fairly limited at their ability
to do that kind of thing.
Let me try to explain why.
Let's go back to the timeline
that I described before.
We get all of this
data in period one
to make a statement about
what we see in period two.
We run a regression
model to predict
sales as a function of;
visits to the website,
usage of social media,
marketing activities,
everything under the
sun, that's great.
But what happens if we
want to make statements
about period three?
Well, if all you want to do is
make statements
about period three,
that's not so bad. You'll
say, "Wait a minute.
I have this data on period two.
Instead of using period two
as my dependent variable,
that's the thing that I want
to explain in my regression,
why don't I look at
period two and get
my explanatory variables from it.
Why don't I look at; the
visits to the website,
the marketing touches, the RFM?
I have period two,
so let me take all the period
two data now to try to
make a prediction about what
will happen in period three.
Hey, I already ran my regression.
So I have my regression
coefficients,
I have all the outputs
and everything
that rigor was talking about.
So let me just jam in
my period two data
into that regression and
make statements about
period three. "
You see, I can predict the
future and that's great.
If you want to go
one statement at
one period out, terrific.
But what happens if you
want to go to period four?
We don't have any data beyond
period two ,we don't have
any x variables from period
three in order to
predict period four,
what are we going to do there?
How far out into the
future can we go?
The problem with
regression type models
is that they're limited.
That if you don't
have any data to
use as inputs into the model,
then you can't get the output.
So no matter how long your
observation period might be,
you're limited as far as how
far into the future you
can make statements.
Now, in many cases
this isn't a problem.
For many kinds of decisions
that the companies want to make,
simply being able to
make statements about
one maybe two periods
out, is perfectly fine.
In fact, you might say that
most decisions are
perfectly adequate
and these limitations of
regression aren't going to
be a problem, and I agree.
But there are times,
especially when we want to
ask when type questions,
or long run type questions.
Like I mentioned, customer
lifetime value already.
It's one thing if we want
to make a statement about,
''Is this customer
going to churn in
the next period or not?''
Regression models are going to be
great for that kind of thing.
But if we want to ask
a question instead,
''When will this
customer churn?''
Like if they survive
through the next period,
how many more periods
will they survive?
Regression won't
really work well,
when we're projecting way
outside of the range of
data that we had in
the first place to run
the original model.
So if we want to make these
longer run projections,
and I'm going to keep
coming back to talk about
customer lifetime value
as one very nice,
very practical example
of something that we're
going to want to do over
a longer period of time.
Today, as firms start talking
much more about
customer centricity,
that we want to figure out
who the right customers
are and we're willing to
invest in them because
they're going to be
so worth it in the long run,
we need to have some
visibility into the long run.
We need to be able to make
these predictive statements about
the long run in order to
see if those investments
are justified.
So there's much more interest
than ever to be able to
make statements
beyond period two.
So I want to talk about
a very different kind
of modeling approach.
It's not nearly as popular
as regression models are,
but it's not necessarily
any more complicated.
As our view to the future
goes further and further out,
it becomes more and more
important to add this other kind
of modeling approach to
your toolkit. That's
what we'll do next.